# TEAM: Alejandra López Rodríguez, Divyasha Ray and Riddhima Mishra

Project title: Effects of agricultural investments on productivity, consumption, and living standards

1.0 Objective: 
Replicating a part of the study ‘Investing Cash Transfers to Raise Long-Term Living Standards’ by Gertler, Martinez, and Rubio-Codina on the impact of conditional cash transfers on long term living standards of beneficiaries in Mexico.

2.0 Key questions: 
     (i) Does participation in the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) program lead to better health outcomes in the long term?
     (ii) Are better health outcomes associated with increased productivity?
     (iii) Is increased productivity associated with increased consumption?
     (iv) Is increased consumption associated with better living standards?

3.0 Initial Hypothesis:
    For the success of the CCT program
    (i) Participation in the CCT leads to increased agricultural and micro-enterprise investments.
    (ii) An increase in agricultural and micro-enterprise investments is associated with improved living standards as measured by days of          inactivity and days of sickness.
 
 4.0 We will be working with the study’s data sets, available at: https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/app.4.1.164 

We have identified that primarily we will be using the following datasets:
a)     Investments_Data (320 variables, 157,971 observations): It is at household level and contains information on investment in productive agricultural assets such as animals and land, and non-agricultural microenterprises.
b)     Adults_morbility_03(16 variables, 85,885 observations): It is an individual level dataset and has information on self-reported health status of all prime age adults in the household, including if the individual was sick in the last one month, if she was inactive, and various other measures of activity of daily living.

5.0 Data Analysis: We will use an OLS regression model for our analysis. The analysis of our study will be two-fold :
1.       First, we will evaluate the impact of cash transfers on household investments (agricultural assets and micro-enterprise assets) in the short run
2.   Then, we will study if the difference in the short-run investments between treatment and control groups affects long-term living standards viz, household consumption,and agricultural income. Further, to ascertain that the long-term differences in living standards cannot be explained by variables other than cash transfers we will particularly look into differences in health outcomes (paper studies other variables as well). Better health can translate into better productivity and thus greater agricultural income or consumption. If we do not find any differences in long-term health outcomes between treatment and control group, then we can attribute differences in long-term consumption and agricultural income to the investment generated by cash transfers in the short run in the treatment group. 

6.0 Key concepts to be used:

Merging of large datasets from individual level to household level data
Paralleling stata code on Python
Regression analysis
Data visualization using Python
If possible, using spatial analysis for depicting households covered under CCT program

7.0 Proposed deliverables:

Tables showing regression analysis of key variables
Charts(scatter plots, bubble charts, bar charts, etc.) of health, income, and productivity effects by gender and income levels

References/bibliography:

Gertler, Paul J., Sebastian W. Martinez, and Marta Rubio-Codina. 2012. "Investing Cash Transfers to Raise Long-Term Living Standards." American Economic Journal: Applied Economics, 4(1): 164-92.

